<span>-1in</span> <span> </span>

**Memorial University of Newfoundland,** St. John’s, NL, Canada
<span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">may</span> 2016-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">Present</span></span></span>\
*Ph.D. Candidate, [Biology](http://www.mun.ca/biology)*

Thesis: Bottom-up or top-down? Intraspecic variability, resource
quality, and space use in the Boreal Forest

Advisor: Dr. Shawn J. Leroux

**Imperial College London-Silwood Park,** Ascot, UK <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">sept.</span> 2013-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">sept.</span> 2014</span></span>\
*Master of Research (Distinction), [Ecology, Evolution and
Conservation](https://www.imperial.ac.uk/study/pg/life-sciences/ecology-evolution-conservation-research/)*

First Project: The Scaling of Activity Budgets in Carnivores

Advisors: Dr. Samraat Pawar and Dr. Chris Carbone

Second Project: Comparison of two commonly used methods to estimate
species diversity: dung counts and camera trapping

Advisors: Prof. Mick J. Crawley FRS and Dr. Joris P. Cromsigt

**University of Turin,** Turin, Italy <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">march</span> 2009-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">dec.</span> 2012</span></span>\
*Master of Science, [Evolution of Animal and Human
Behaviour](https://goo.gl/rCzbq7)*

Thesis: Predator-prey interactions: feeding ecology of the Wolf (*C.
lupus*) and anti-predator behaviour of the Chamois (*R. rupicapra*) in
the Western Alps

Advisors: Dr. Francesca Marucco

**University of Turin,** Turin, Italy <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">oct.</span> 2004-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">mar.</span> 2009</span></span>\
*Bachelor of Science (Honours),
[Biology](http://biologia.campusnet.unito.it/do/home.pl)*

Thesis: Individual characteristics of vocalisations emitted during the
song of *Indri indri*

Advisors: Prof. Cristina Giacoma and Dr. Marco Gamba

*Peer Reviewed*

**Rizzuto, M.,** Carbone, C., and Pawar, S. (

). Foraging constraints reverse the scaling of activity time in
carnivores. *Nature Ecology and Evolution* **2**, 247–253.\
doi:
[10.1038/s41559-017-0386-1](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41559-017-0386-1)
<span><span> Cover story</span></span>

*Scientific Communication*

Cagnacci, F., Rocca, M., Nicoloso, S., Ossi, F., Peters, W., Mancinelli,
S., Valent, M., **Rizzuto, M.**, Hebblewhite, M. (

). *Il progetto 2C2T.* Il Cacciatore Trentino, 93, 4–15.

**Rizzuto, M.,** Leroux, S. J., Vander Wal, E., Wiersma, Y., Heckford,
T. R., Balluffi-Fry, J. (

). *Ontogeny and Ecological Stoichiometry of Snowshoe hares (Lepus
americanus) in the Boreal Forests of Newfoundland.* Canadian Society for
Ecology and Evolution Annual General Meeting, Guelph, ON, Canada.

Heckford, T. R., Leroux, S. J., Vander Wal, E., **Rizzuto, M.**,
Balluffi-Fry, J., Richmond, I., Wiersma, Y. (

). *Investigating the effect of competition on the intraspecific
variability of foliar elemental traits.* Atlantic Society of Fish and
Wildlife Biologists Annual General Meeting, Corner Brook, NL, Canada.

Heckford, T. R., Leroux, S. J., Vander Wal, E., **Rizzuto, M.**,
Balluffi-Fry, J., Wiersma, Y. (

). *Spatial Variability in the Elemental Composition of Plants:
Implications for Herbivores on the Resource Stoichiometric Landscape.*
Canadian Society of Zoologists Annual General Meeting, St. John’s, NL,
Canada.

Heckford, T. R., Leroux, S. J., Vander Wal, E., **Rizzuto, M.**,
Balluffi-Fry, J., Wiersma, Y. (

). *From Elements to Communities to Ecosystems.* Nature Newfoundland and
Labrador, St. John’s, NL, Canada.

Heckford, T. R., Leroux, S. J., Vander Wal, E., **Rizzuto, M.**,
Balluffi-Fry, J., Wiersma, Y. (

). *The stoichiometric landscape: mapping the biogeochemical matrix with
wildlife in mind.* Geomatics Atlantic Conference, St. John’s, NL,
Canada.

**Rizzuto, M.,** Carbone, C., and Pawar, S. (

). *Bio-mechanical constraints on foraging reverse the scaling of
activity rate among carnivores.* Canadian Society for Ecology and
Evolution Annual General Meeting, St. John’s, NL, Canada.

**Rizzuto, M.,** Leroux, S. J., Vander Wal, E., Wiersma, Y., Heckford,
T. R., Balluffi-Fry, J. (

). *Beyond Diffusion: Animal-Mediated Nutrient Transport at Different
Spatial Scales.* “Unifying Ecology Across Scales” Gordon Research
Seminar and Conference, Biddeford, ME, USA.

Balluffi-Fry J., Vander Wal E., Leroux S. J., Wiersma Y., Heckford T.
R., **Rizzuto M.** (

). *Using forage elemental composition to test for scale-dependent
quality and quantity trade-offs in moose.* Canadian Society for Ecology
and Evolution Annual General Meeting, Guelph, ON, Canada.

Balluffi-Fry J., Vander Wal E., Leroux S. J., Wiersma Y., Heckford T.
R., **Rizzuto M.** (

). *Multi-scale test of moose foraging strategy using quantitative
elemental measures for forage quality and quantity.* Memorial University
Biology Graduate Student Symposium, St. John’s, NL, Canada.

Heckford, T. R., Leroux, S. J., Vander Wal, E., **Rizzuto, M.**,
Balluffi-Fry, J., Wiersma, Y. (

). *Constructing the Stoichiometric Landscape: Spatial Correlates of
Plant Elemental Composition.* Memorial University Biology Graduate
Student Symposium, St. John’s, NL, Canada.

Heckford, T. R., Leroux, S. J., Vander Wal, E., **Rizzuto, M.**,
Wiersma, Y. (

). *A tale of two trees: stoichiometry of balsam fir and white birch in
the boreal forest.* Canadian Society for Ecology and Evolution Annual
General Meeting, Victoria, BC, Canada.

Mitacs Globalink Research Award, Mitacs <span><span> 2018</span></span>

Dean’s Doctoral Award, Memorial University of Newfoundland <span><span>
2016–2018</span></span>

Graduated with Distinction, Imperial College London <span><span>
2014</span></span>

*Awarded to the top 5% of all Master’s students in the <span><span>
2013-2014</span></span> cohort*

Erasmus-LLP Scholarship, University of Turin <span><span>
2010</span></span>

*Unifying Ecology Across Scales Gordon Research Conference* <span><span>
22–27 <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">jul.</span>
2018</span></span>\
Biddeford, ME, USA

*Unifying Ecology Across Scales Gordon Research Seminar* <span><span>
21–22 <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">jul.</span>
2018</span></span>\
Biddeford, ME, USA

*Canadian Society for Ecology and Evolution Annual General Meeting*
<span><span> 18–21 <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">jul.</span>
2018</span></span>\
Guelph, ON, Canada

*Canadian Society for Ecology and Evolution Annual General Meeting*
<span><span> 7–11 <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">jul.</span>
2016</span></span>\
St. John’s, NL, Canada

*From Energetics to Macro Ecology:* <span><span> 14–15 <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">nov.</span> 2013</span></span>\
*Carnivore Responses to Environmental Change*\
Zoological Society of London, London, UK

*Euroscience Open Forum* <span><span> 2–7 <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">jul.</span> 2010</span></span>\
Turin, Italy

*XIX Congress of the Italian Primatological Society* <span><span> 1–3
<span style="font-variant:small-caps;">apr.</span> 2009</span></span>\
Asti, Italy

**Research Assistant**, *Pawar Lab* <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">jan.</span>-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">mar.</span> 2016</span></span>\
Imperial College London-Silwood Park, Ascot, UK

Worked with digitization software to extract terrestrial plant thermal
response data from published studies

Assisted with database management and data cleanup, as well as formation
of new team members

Part of a larger project aimed at analyzing the effects of temperature
on the physiology of a number of different phyla

**Research Assistant**, *Tsaobis Baboon Project* <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">jun.</span>-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">oct.</span> 2015</span></span>\
Zoological Society of London, London, UK

Three months placement, part of a long term research project on the
ecology of the Chacma baboon (*P. ursinus*), in the Tsaobis Leopard
Nature Park (Namibia)

Assisted with collection of behavioural data and fecal samples from two
troops of habituated baboons, as well as with plant phenology surveys in
the Tsaobis riverbed and nearby hills

Improved my knowledge of behavioural sampling techniques, primate and
desert ecology, as well as of project management and of GPS equipment

**Research Assistant**, *Roe & Red deer in Trentino & Technology
Project* <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">jun.</span>-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">sept.</span> 2013</span></span>\
Trento, Italy

Studied the migratory behaviour of roe deer (*C. capreolus*) using
radio-tracking techniques (GPS, VHF), plant phenology surveys and pellet
decay rate analyses

Intensive fieldwork in a physically demanding environment, under harsh
weather conditions

Worked with researchers from the Ungulate Ecology Lab of the University
of Montana, as part of an international team coalescing a variety of
different backgrounds and expertise

Greatly enhanced my radio-tracking, plant and pellet identification and
organizational skills

**Graduate Intern**, *Piedmont Wolf Project* <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">jun.</span>-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">dec.</span> 2011</span></span>\
Maritime Alps Nature Park, Entraque (CN), Italy

Designed and performed a study of the predator-prey interactions of
wolves (*C. lupus*) and chamois (*R. rupicapra*) in the Maritime Alps
Natural Park

Managed of all aspects of the project, including sampling sites
selection, behavioural sampling, prey identification by hair analysis
and scat specimen preparation for genetic analyses

Vastly enhanced my fieldwork, laboratory and time-management skills

**Undergraduate Intern**, *Ethology Lab* <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">jun.</span> 2008-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">mar.</span> 2009</span></span>\
University of Turin, Turin, Italy

Performed computer-based analyses on the group song of the Indri lemur

Learned the basics of bioacoustics analysis, database management and
statistics

**Memorial University of Newfoundland,** St. John’s, NL, Canada
*Graduate Teaching Assistant, Department of Biology*\
BIOL 2600: Principles of Ecology <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">fall</span> 2018</span></span>\
BIOL 1002: Principles of Biology <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">winter</span> 2017</span></span>

**Imperial College London,** London, UK *Undergraduate Teaching
Assistant, Department of Life Sciences*\
Ecology, 2$^{nd}$ year course <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">spring</span>
2015</span></span>Behavioural Ecology, 2$^{nd}$ year course <span><span>
<span style="font-variant:small-caps;">winter</span>
2015</span></span>Introduction to Biological Statistics, 2$^{nd}$ year
course <span><span> <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">fall</span>
2014</span></span>

**Imperial College London-Silwood Park,** Ascot, UK *Graduate Teaching
Assistant, Department of Life Sciences*\
Statistics <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">fall</span>
2014</span></span>Macroecology and Climate Change <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">fall</span> 2014</span></span>

**Chair**, *Biology Graduate Student Association* <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">may</span> 2018-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">present</span></span></span>\
Memorial University, St. John’s, NL, Canada

Facilitated collaboration and communications with the Head of the
Department of Biology’s Office to involve graduate students in
administrative tasks

Developed, funded, and run the “The Balanced Student” series of
workshops dedicated to mental health and wellness of graduate students

Hosted a Student-Supervisor Relationship workshop as part of the
Graduate Core Seminar (BIOL 7000) course

Coordinated the activities of the Executive Committee, focusing on
fundraising and community outreach

**Seminar Coordinator**, *Biology Graduate Student Association*
<span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">may</span> 2017–<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">may</span> 2018</span></span>\
Memorial University, St. John’s, NL, Canada

Organized and run the weekly Seminar series for the Department of
Biology, as part of a team of three coordinators

Approached, scheduled and managed potential speakers, from both within
and outside the Department and the Province

Helped in organizing the annual Symposium showcasing the research
produced by the Department’s graduate students

Contributed to fundraising and outreach activities organized by the
Association

**Youth Counselor**, *OASI-Operazione Mato Grosso* <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">may</span> 2000–<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">aug.</span> 2013</span></span>\
Turin, Italy

Volunteer work ranging from education to entertainment, involving
children and teenagers in primary, secondary and high school, and summer
camps

Engaged in similar formative activities with deprived children during a
2.5-months-long missionary post at the Hospital S<span>ã</span>o
Juli<span>ã</span>o in Campogrande, MS, Brazil

Taught me the value of hard work and developed my publication
relationship, oratory and teamwork skills

**Team Leader**, *XX Winter Olympic and IX Paralympic Games*
<span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">nov.</span> 2005-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">mar.</span> 2006</span></span>\
Turin, Italy

Organized and supervised daily activities of a team of 10 volunteers in
the Protocol Crew, International Relations and Services

provided initial containment of emergencies, customer assistance and
ensured my team’s welfare

Greatly developed my leadership and problem solving skills

**Assistant Surveyor**, *Catherine Bickmore Associates Ltd.*
<span><span> <span style="font-variant:small-caps;">may</span>-<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">jun.</span> 2015</span></span>\
London, UK

Involved in reptile and amphibian censuses in Kent, Wiltshire and
Cambridgeshire

Expanded my knowledge of amphibian and reptile ecology, of ecological
survey techniques and of the mechanisms of environmental consultancy

Canadian Society of Ecology and Evolution <span><span>
2016–2018</span></span>

*Working knowledge*Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe Creative Suite, R,
RStudio, LaTeX, Markdown, Git,\
MacOS X, Windows 7/8, Unix shell, Quantum GIS, ArcGIS

*Basic knowledge*Mathematica, SPSS, File Maker Pro Advanced, YAML,
Inkscape, Gimp, Pixelmator

Wilderness and Remote First Aid <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">may</span> 2016–2018</span></span>\
Canadian Red Cross,St. John’s, NL, Canada

WHMIS and Lab Safety <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">jan.</span> 2017</span></span>\
Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John’s, NL, Canada

Basic Outdoor First Aid <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">apr.</span> 2014</span></span>\
Marlin Training Ltd., London, UK

International English Language Testing System, grade 8.5 <span><span>
<span style="font-variant:small-caps;">feb.</span> 2013</span></span>\
British Council,Turin, Italy

International Computer Driving Licence <span><span> <span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">may</span> 2007</span></span>\
University of Turin,Turin, Italy

Backpacking, Hiking, Photography, Yoga, T’ai Chi Quan, Shaolin Kung Fu
